---
title: "Transformers in NLU and Dialogue"
date: 2022-10-21T18:00:00+02:00
event_id: "289053799"
venue_name: "Startit Centar Beograd"
venue_city: "Beograd"
going_count: 48
cover_image: "/images/events/289053799.jpeg"
---

<p>DATA SCIENCE CLUB BELGRADE Meetup<br />
21. October\, 18h\, Startit center\, Savska 5\, Beograd</p>
<p><strong>Transformers in NLU and Dialogue</strong><br />
<strong>Alan Nichol , Rasa Technologies Inc., Co-founder &amp; CTO</strong></p>
<p>Alan Nichol, Co-founder &amp; CTO of Rasa Technologies Inc., and one of the co-authors of the <a href="https://rasa.com/blog/introducing-dual-intent-and-entity-transformer-diet-state-of-the-art-performance-on-a-lightweight-architecture/">DIET</a> Deep Learning architecture for detecting entities and speaker intentions in the field of NLU (Natural Language Understanding), will speak at the first meeting of the DATA SCIENCE CLUB BELGRADE meetup group in Startit center, Savska 5, Belgrade, on Friday, October 21 at 6 p.m. Rasa is a startup and at the same time an <a href="https://rasa.com/docs/rasa/">open-source technology</a> for the development of conversational AI (Conversational AI), whose investors include Andreessen Horowitz, Accel, and BSV, and whose solutions are used by Forbes 200 companies to develop virtual assistants for their clients.</p>
<p><a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/anichol/">Alan Nichol</a> studied physical chemistry at the University of Edinburgh and did his PhD at Cambridge working on Machine Learning algorithms applied to computer simulations of atomic-scale processes, before turning to the difficult and challenging field of conversational AI development and creating Rasa. The DIET architecture for the discovery of entities and the speaker's intent in a conversation, which he co-authored and which is found in the core of Rasa technology, outperforms fine-tuning BERT and is six times faster to train. Rasa open source, on the other hand, represents an elaborate codebase of Python components which makes it possible to create and train a virtual assistants according to one's specific needs.</p>
<p>Every Data Scientist, beginner or expert, ML Engineer, Computational Linguist, or anyone interested in cutting-edge developments in AI in the fields of NLP/NLU will have an exclusive opportunity to hear Alan at the first meetup of the DATA SCIENCE CLUB BELGRADE group. Please be sure to register on the meetup page for this event due to the limited number of places in the Startit center.</p>
<p>The program:</p>
<p>19:00 - 19:45 Alan Nichol, Transformers in NLU and Dialogue talk<br />
19:45 - 20:00 Q&amp;A<br />
20:00 - 20:30 Networking</p>
<p>Future meetings within the DATA SCIENCE CLUB BELGRADE and the potential for cooperation in many areas will also be discussed.</p>
<p>The sponsor of the first renewed BelgradeR Meetup is <a href="http://www.datakolektiv.com/app_direct/DataKolektivServer/">DataKolektiv</a>, and we are supported, as always, by our umbrella organization <a href="https://datascience.rs/">Data Science Serbia</a>.</p>
