---
title: "Pre-training large language models for Serbian"
date: 2023-10-13T18:00:00+02:00
event_id: "296495430"
venue_name: "ICT Hub Kralja Milana"
venue_city: "Beograd"
going_count: 62
cover_image: "/images/events/296495430.jpeg"
---

<p><strong>Pre-training large language models for Serbian</strong></p>
<p><strong>Mihailo Škorić</strong><br />
<strong>University of Belgrade, Faculty of Mining and Geology</strong><br />
<strong>Abstract</strong>: This session will cover the process of building several (already published) large language models (e.g., GPT-2) for Serbian “from scratch”, which consisted of several steps, namely the preparation of necessary dataset, computer resources and software, as well as the preparation of a proper tokenizer. With that in mind, the session will try to cover these steps and focus on answering any questions regarding the process.</p>
<p><strong>Bio</strong>: Mihailo Škorić is a Serbian interdisciplinary scientist born in 1992. holding a PhD degree in Intelligent systems and a master’s degree in Language and literature from the University of Belgrade, especially interested in language modelling.<br />
Since 2017, he has been working at the Faculty of Mining and Geology, where he is a software engineer at the Mining Department’s Computer Center and a research associate at the Department of Applied Mathematics and Informatics. He is the author and co-author of about twenty scientific papers in the fields of natural language processing, intelligent systems and library and information science.<br />
He was an active participant in the COST action CA16204 - Distant Reading for European Literary History, within which he participated in a four-day training in methods and techniques of distant reading at the National University of Ireland in Galway, as well as in a short-term scientific mission at the Institute of the Polish Language in Krakow in March 2020, with the topic of comparative stylistic and morphosyntactic analysis of texts. Since 2023, he is a member of the committee of the COST action CA18231 Multi3Generation: Multi-task, Multilingual, Multi-modal Language Generation.<br />
He is also an active member of the <a href="https://jerteh.rs/">Society for Language Resources and Technologies - JeRTeh</a> - where he participates in the development of systems and tools for processing the Serbian language.</p>
