---
title: "Data as an instrument for more efficient collaboration with robots"
date: 2023-05-24T18:00:00+02:00
event_id: "293586544"
venue_name: "Startit Centar Beograd"
venue_city: "Beograd"
going_count: 28
cover_image: "/images/events/293586544.jpeg"
---

<p><strong>Data as an instrument for more efficient collaboration with robots</strong></p>
<p><strong>Lecturer:</strong> Kosta Jovanović<br />
Linkedin: <a href="http://www.linkedin.com/pub/kosta-jovanovic/19/b80/360">http://www.linkedin.com/pub/kosta-jovanovic/19/b80/360</a><br />
Google Scholar: <a href="https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=ipmWe9AAAAAJ&amp;hl=sr">https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=ipmWe9AAAAAJ&amp;hl=sr</a></p>
<p><strong>Abstract:</strong> Collaborative robots (cobots) are the latest robotic technology designed for efficient and safe interaction with humans and working in a collaborative environment. The number of installed cobots and the size of the market are increasing dramatically every year. To further increase the acceptance of collaborative robots and enable smooth physical interaction, we need to make them understand the environment and human behavior patterns and quantify the interaction parameters. In the conversation, current achievements in the field will be briefly presented, current projects implemented within the Laboratory for Robotics - ETF Robotics, at the Faculty of Electrical Engineering of the University of Belgrade will be presented, and perspectives for further development in local and global frameworks will be discussed.</p>
<p><strong>Bio:</strong> Kosta Jovanović is an associate professor and head of the "ETF Robotics" research group at the Faculty of Electrical Engineering (ETF) of the University of Belgrade. He was born in Čačak in 1986, where he graduated from the "Milica Pavlović" Elementary School and the Čačak High School as a student of his generation. He graduated in 2009 from the Faculty of Electrical Engineering as the best student in the study program for electrical engineering and computer science. In 2016, he received his doctorate at ETF in the field of robotics under the mentorship of Prof. Veljko Potkonjak, and gained professional experience at the company "SMS Siemag" (2009), the Technical University of Munich (2010) and the Institute for Robotics and Mechatronics - German Center for Space Research (DLR, 2013), all in Germany. He was a scholar and coordinator of the Alumni Club of the program for students of the Dr. Zoran Đinđić Foundation and the Committee for Economic Relations of Germany with Eastern Europe, as well as a scholar of the Academic Exchange Service of the Republic of Germany (DAAD). His scientific contributions are reflected in the design and management of drives of new generations of robots, the development of methods for safe and efficient physical cooperation of robots with the environment, and methods of application of collaborative robots in industry and medicine. So far, he has published more than twenty papers in respected international journals, and only in the last 2 years the research in which he participated was presented in the most respected robotics journals: IEEE Robotics Automation Magazine, IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, Journal of Robotics Research. His works have been cited more than 1,600 times. At ETF, he currently manages several projects in the field of robotics: Horizon 2020 and Horizon Europe (MUSAE, DIH-HERO, DIH2, cascade projects SHOP4CF and BOWI), as well as the Science Fund of the Republic of Serbia (ForNextCobot, PROMIS program, and CircuBot, Green Fund program cooperation between science and business). He has been awarded numerous awards for the best papers at conferences (28th RAAD conf. 2019, Kaiserslautern, Germany, and the local ETRAN conference on several occasions), as well as the AmCham Leader in Change HERO Award (American Chamber of Commerce in Serbia), 1st Place NMMI Winter School on Robotics: Variable Stiffness Actuators (Rome, Italy, 2015), the City of Belgrade Award (2013), Exit Foundation (2016), Nikola Tesla Foundation Award (2012), the University of Belgrade Award (2011).</p>
