---
title: "How Narrative and Midjourney AI Shape Character Design"
date: 2024-03-22T18:00:00+01:00
event_id: "299757394"
venue_name: "ICT Hub Kralja Milana"
venue_city: "Beograd"
going_count: 29
cover_image: "/images/events/299757394.jpeg"
---

<p><strong>Storytelling's Brushstrokes: How Narrative and Midjourney AI Shape Character Design</strong></p>
<p><strong>Lecturer: <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/daviddarko/">Darko Dimitrijević</a></strong></p>
<p>The ever-evolving capabilities of Midjourney, coupled with the innovative new features infused within every new update, are revolutionizing how we interact with and utilize AI-generated imagery. These advancements empower artists and designers to explore novel avenues of creative inspiration and practical application. Instead of crafting one standalone piece at a time, we now have the potential to generate an abundance of stunning resources. Integrating these new tools has the potential to significantly accelerate workflows, while established tools like Photoshop remain crucial for final compositions. We'll delve deeper into how these advancements can benefit your creative processes, specifically focusing on tools that expedite the path to desired results.</p>
<p><strong>About the Lecturer</strong></p>
<p>Darko is an experienced graphic designer with his breakdown at Insomniac Events where he learned and strengthened his graphic skills, moving from there to the mobile gaming domain where he’s the part of UI/UX Live design team at Playstudios Europe for almost 4 years.<br />
Additionally, Darko has actively embraced the challenge of mastering prompt-based writing skills in the realm of artificial intelligence with MidJourney. Beyond his design expertise, Darko is a passionate storyteller, specializing in crafting captivating sci-fi narratives with a technical flair, seamlessly blending his creative and technical abilities to bring vivid worlds to life in his writing.<br />
During his talk, Darko will share valuable insights drawing from his extensive experience in graphic design and expertise in prompt-based writing to provide practical lessons and techniques for creators in the field.</p>
<p>https://www.linkedin.com/in/daviddarko/</p>
